 

 

 

Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/varadharajan-
naganathan-70b96b102 (LinkedIn)

Varadharajan Naganathan
Senior Java Developer at Optimum Solutions (S) Pte Ltd, Singapore
Singapore

Top Skills
JavaServer Pages (JSP)
Spring Framework
Microservices

Summary
Skilled in full stack development. Strong business development
professional with a Master's degree focused in Computer Science
from BITS Pilani. 

Experience

Optimum Solutions (S) Pte Ltd, Singapore
Senior Java Developer
November 2019 - Present (1 year 5 months)
Singapore

CPF Board
Program Analyst
April 2016 - November 2019 (3 years 8 months)
Singapore

• Monitor & assist in coding, compilation and thorough unit testing of the
components. 
• Formulate optimizations for improvement in application program logic,
searching and sorting operations, output routines, database operations and
backup processes
• Modify application logic as per the conclusions of these steps to deliver
improvement in job cycles and processes as well to lower processing costs by
reducing CPU usage.
• Create UT, ST and UAT plan and test records for the Users. 
• Any defects will be handled problem ticket. 

• Prioritize and manage work across different projects happening in same
timeline 

• Assist team members to deliver their assigned tasks on agreed time and with
no compromise in quality

Wipro Technologies
Senior Software Engineer

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

July 2011 - April 2016 (4 years 10 months)
5+ years of rich experience in mainframe technology across multiple domains,
projects.

Domains – Banking Insurance & Credit Cards

Projects – Core development of applications.
Client Geography – UK(Banking & Insurance) US(Credit Cards), Singapore
gov

• Involved in various stages of development life cycle including fine tuning of
mainframe applications Attend client meetings as part of the customer tech
team to drive project Execution and testing. 
• Managing and maintaining various Test environments to facilitate the project
testing Coordinating with various teams at client location to manage project
release and maintain formalities.
• Have performed the Support analyst for Self Service channels like ATM /
IB telephony at client location. This has been helpful in better understanding
banking domain.

• Key strength is good analytical and problem-solving skills
• Excellent communication and interpersonal skills with a keen understanding
of business applications, their Integration and a proven ability to adapt to new
areas.

Education
BITS Pilani
Master's degree, Computer Science · (2011 - 2015)

St Joseph Collage
Bachelor's degree, Compute science · (2008 - 2011)

Page 2 of 2

