 

 

 

Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/shenghao-
wang (LinkedIn)

Shenghao Wang
Data Scientist at Gojek
Singapore

Top Skills
Data Analysis
Python
R

Languages
Chinese (Native or Bilingual)
English (Professional Working)

Certifications
Natural Language Processing with
Classification and Vector Spaces
Introduction to Data Science in
Python
Neural Networks and Deep Learning

Summary
I am a data science practitioner with cross industry experience, and
am passionate in developing innovative data driven solutions to
real world business problems. My areas of focus include consumer
analytics, spatial analysis, and NLP. Feel free to reach me at
wangshenghao@gmail.com.

Experience

Gojek
1 year 3 months
Data Scientist
September 2020 - Present (8 months)
Singapore

Data Scientist Intern
February 2020 - August 2020 (7 months)
Singapore

As a data scientist intern of the recommendation team under GoFood, I am
working on developing miscellaneous customer and merchant related features,
with a mission to improve the booking conversion rate delivered by the
merchant ranking model. My work covers ad-hoc EDA, feature engineering,
and implementation of data pipelines which inject the new feature sets for the
use of modelling.

Job skills: Python, SQL, feature engineering, NLP, Deep Learning, EDA

Undisclosed Global Investment Firm
Operation Specialist
August 2018 - September 2019 (1 year 2 months)
Central Singapore

Job Skills: Python, Linux, Automation, Data Engineering

EY
Associate, Transaction Advisory Service
Page 1 of 3

 

 

 

March 2018 - August 2018 (6 months)
Singapore

As a data analyst from the TAS department, I served clients from various
industries by extracting KPIs from large volume of data and preparing reports
and dashboards to communicate business insights to internal and external
stakeholders.

In a major site selection project, we collected miscellaneous spatial and public
real estate price data via web scraping and Google APIs and conducted
catchment area analysis to advise clients from ASEAN on effective local level
marketing.

Job skills: data analysis, web scraping, SQL, Spotfire, Alteryx Designer

Works Applications Co., Ltd.
Software Engineer
October 2016 - March 2018 (1 year 6 months)
Singapore

I served as a software developer for the e-commerce and supply chain
management product, conceiving and implementing the ERP software systems
to optimise miscellaneous business workflows and improve the clients’ work
efficiency.

Job skills: web development, JavaScript, Java

Chevron
Process Engineer Intern
January 2015 - July 2015 (7 months)
Singapore

Chevron Oronite is a leading manufacturer of lubricant and fuel additives. I
joined the process engineering team, with a mission to automate the periodic
monitoring and analysis of major process KPIs and product qualities.

Job skills: process automation, data visualisation, Excel VBA, statistical
process control

SembCorp Industries Ltd
Business Analyst Intern
May 2014 - July 2014 (3 months)
Singapore

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

To explore the potential opportunities and risks of power plant projects, I joined
the business development department and conducted ad-hoc researches on
the related topics of energy industry, such as the latest regulations on coal-
fired power plants in China and MSW incineration plants in Singapore.

Education
National University of Singapore
Master of Science - MS, Business Analytics · (2017 - 2020)

National University of Singapore
Bachelor of Engineering - BE(Hons.), Chemical Engineering · (2012 - 2016)

Page 3 of 3

