 

 

 

Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/tanpengshi
(LinkedIn)
medium.com/@tanpengshi (Blog)
github.com/tanpengshi (Portfolio)

Tan Pengshi Alvin
Data Scientist at Miracom Pte Ltd
Singapore

Top Skills
Python
Data Visualization
Public Speaking

Languages
German (Elementary)
English (Native or Bilingual)
Mandarin (Native or Bilingual)

Certifications
Python for Everybody -
Specialization 
Machine Learning
The Complete SQL Bootcamp 2020:
Go from Zero to Hero

Honors-Awards
DSTA Undergraduate Scholarship

Summary
Passionate and curious Data Scientist, with a flair for programming
and data story-telling, and a repertoire of skills in exploratory data
analysis, statistical analysis, machine learning algorithms, NLP,
recommender systems, computer vision and neural networks.
Conversant in SQL, Tableau and Python packages such as Pandas,
Matplotlib, Seaborn, Scikit-Learn, Keras and OpenCV, I am highly
results driven and I look forward to interesting data science projects,
in which I can deliver innovative solutions, business value and
impact for the company. In the process, I plan to work towards
acquiring the skills of a Full-Stack Data Scientist.

In my available time, I also like to pick up additional data science
knowledge through navigating Medium, textbooks and learning
from Coursera, Udemy. Other hobbies include reading non-fiction,
meditation, gaming, hitting the gym, Table-tennis and going for long
walks in the neighborhood.

Data Science Blog:  https://medium.com/@tanpengshi
GitHub: https://github.com/tanpengshi

Experience

Miracom Pte Ltd
Data Scientist
December 2020 - Present (5 months)
Singapore

Lead data science projects at a startup in the area of Computer Vision,
in particular Facial Recognition and Car Number Plate Recognition.
Achievements include:

• Facial Recognition: Develop a highly accurate real-time face recognition
(with/without mask) neural network model with IP cameras using OpenCV,
ArcFace or Google's FaceNet for embeddings and MTCNN/DNN/DSFD for

Page 1 of 4

 

 

 

face detection. The model is engineered to train on the fly with existing targets
autonomously, and with new targets manually. The authentication model is
also trained against spoofing attacks. 
• Car Number Plate Recognition: Model is currently undergoing development.
• Data Engineering: Set up protocol buffers and APIs for client-server gRPC
connection.

Metis
Data Scientist
September 2020 - November 2020 (3 months)
Singapore

Trained under an accredited 12-week immersive apprenticeship in full-
stack data science, covering topics such as communication and design,
programming, data acquisition, exploratory data analysis, statistical inference,
supervised and unsupervised learning, time series analysis, Natural Language
Processing, Recommender Systems, Neural Networks, SQL and noSQL
databases and Spark. I worked on a total of 5 data science projects as follows:

• Project 1: Exploratory data analysis of traffic flow trends with NYC MTA
turnstile data 
- Techniques Used: Highly customized Heatmaps, Histograms, Barplots and
Boxplots 
- GitHub: https://github.com/tanpengshi/Metis_Project_1_MTA_Analysis

• Project 2: Predicting Market Value of  FIFA Soccer Players with Regression
-   Techniques Used: Regularization, CV and LASSO, Ridge, ElasticNet,
Polynomial Regression
-   GitHub: https://github.com/tanpengshi/Metis_Project_2_FIFA_Players

• Project 3: Predicting Satisfaction of Airline Passengers with Classification
-   Techniques Used: kNN, Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, SVM, Decision
Trees, Random Forest
-   GitHub: https://github.com/tanpengshi/Metis_Project_3_Airline_Satisfaction
-   Flask App: https://flight-satisfaction-prediction.herokuapp.com/

• Project 4: Strategic Analysis of Trump Rallies with NLP and Time Series
-   Techniques Used: Non-negative Matrix Factorization, K-Means, SARIMA
Time Series Prediction
-   GitHub: https://github.com/tanpengshi/Metis_Project_4_Trump_Rallies

Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

• Project 5: A Content-Based Recommender System for E-Commerce
Webstore
-   Techniques Used: Cosine Similarity, Matrix Product, TfidfVectorizer,
MinMaxScaler
-   GitHub: https://github.com/tanpengshi/Metis_Project_5_Ecommerce

National University of Singapore
Research Engineer
March 2019 - August 2020 (1 year 6 months)
Singapore

Lead Engineer on the government-funded defence project, involving
optimization of physics-based and numerical human thermoregulatory models
using MATLAB to predict the evolution of SAF soldiers’ core temperatures
during route marches, in anticipation of potential heat injuries during military
exercises. Other achievements include:

• Enhanced model prediction by identifying and innovating new scaling
parameters, based on physiological principles through literature research and
data-driven insights.
• Simulated 5-Fold Cross Validations across multiple datasets based on Root
Mean Square Error (RMSE) and Standard Deviation fall-in Percentage (SDP)
to test robustness across models.
• Collaborated with professors and engineers to integrate the prototype model
into the final product with user interface.

Self-Employed
JC Specialist Tutor
June 2015 - March 2019 (3 years 10 months)
Singapore

Ventured into building a tutoring business by lecturing Math/Statistics and
Physics to a range of students from secondary to junior colleges, in both
classroom and one-to-one settings. Other achievements include:

• Created a residential classroom studio with a dedicated website that attract
student enrollment through online advertisements
• Designed and conducted various Physics experiments to both O’Levels and
A’Levels students.
• Participated in curriculum development in Physics and Math teaching/
learning materials.

Page 3 of 4

 

 

 

STATS ChipPAC Ltd., Wafer Process Department
Lead Planner
January 2015 - June 2015 (6 months)
• Supervised real-time operations in the production line, planning the flow
of production units in a complex manufacturing environment to meet tight
deadlines.
• Built from scratch a project by drafting and simulating a new productivity-
tracking system for manufacturing operators, using system data and Microsoft
Excel formulae.

National Library Board, Singapore Memory Project
Assistant Associate 
August 2014 - December 2014 (5 months)
Singapore

• Sourced for memory contributors by conducting phone and face-to-face
interviews, before
transcribing them into an article on the Singapore Memory portal and
iremember.sg blog.
• Managed and supervised other administrative executives on data entry and
uploading of memory contributions

Education
Nanyang Polytechnic
Specialist Diploma, Applied Artificial Intelligence · (2021 - 2022)

National University of Singapore
Bachelor of Science (Merit), Physics · (2010 - 2014)

Raffles Junior College
GCE 'A' Levels   · (2005 - 2006)

Victoria School (Singapore)
GCE 'O' Levels   · (2001 - 2004)

Page 4 of 4

