 

 

 

Contact
leongyunzenben@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/
leongyunzenben (LinkedIn)

Ben Leong
Full Stack Developer at Singtel | React | .NET | Azure Devops
Singapore

Top Skills
.NET Framework
C#
React.js

Languages
Spanish (Limited Working)
English (Full Professional)
Chinese (Elementary)

Certifications
DevOps Foundations
AWS Certified Solutions Architect
- Associate: 1 Cloud Services
Overview
Scrum: The Basics
Studying for the Certified Business
Analyst Professional (CBAP®)
Duolingo Spanish Fluency:
Elementary (Estimated)

Summary
Ben is highly passionate in programming web applications and
database design. Originally a VBA programmer, he has expanded
his skillset to include React.js, C#, C++, .NET framework, Python,
SQL, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, Typescript, Git. 

Being naturally versatile, Ben is able to perform in both front-end
and back-end development. He enjoys to leverage his skills to
solve difficult and novel problems that employers face. Ben uses a
combination of online resources (Stack Overflow, Udemy, YouTube)
and in-company helplines to get the job done on time. If there are
obstacles to completion, Ben communicates them clearly to the
managers without delay. 

Despite having strong technical skills, Ben also understands people.
He understands the stressful position of his management and always
seek to provide accurate due dates for them to plan the schedule.
Ben always finishes tasks on time with minimal rework. His codes
are easy to read, adheres strictly to framework design and is well
documented in Git commits, making the job of the Tech Lead less
difficult.

Even as a developer, Ben knows the importance of QA to the team.
He knows the difficulties the QA faces such as lack of understanding
of new features and more technical aspects of the application. Ben
makes the job of the QA easier by using layman terms to explain
the ins and out of the application so as to improve the efficiency of
their work. The QA discovers bugs faster, the developer fixes them
quickly, hence everybody wins. 

Ben's personal strengths:
• Fast learner. 
• Easily read other people's code and debugging them.
• Always on time and submits by due date.

Page 1 of 4

 

 

 

• Great presentation skills and communicates clearly during
meetings.
• Great teamwork skills. Very easy for non-technical staff to do work
with him as he uses layman language effectively. 
• Independent and high confidence of finishing tasks to a good
standard. 

Ben's long term goal is to become a Cloud Solutions Architect. He
is currently learning Azure and AWS on the side and plans to transit
into deploying cloud services in the near future. 

Experience

Singtel
Fullstack Developer
October 2020 - Present (7 months)
• Did fullstack React/React Native (Desktop/Mobile Frontend) and C#/.NET
MVC (Backend). 
• Developed corporate IT systems for SingTel and subsidiary Optus Australia.  
• Used Azure DevOps for CI/CD, Cloud storage (Azure SQL) and version
control (Git).
• Wrote SQL for manual data CRUD for RDBMS, REST API. 

NEC Corporation
Software Developer
October 2019 - September 2020 (1 year)
• Used C#, .NET, CSS, HTML, JavaScript, SQL, Git, SQL server, JIRA. 
• Programmed using back-end (server, database, REST API) and front-end
(UI, UX) skills.  
• Participated in one SDLC using Agile developing end-user software for
Access Control. 
• Conveyed to team efficiently by providing concise presentations and
technical explanations which slashed bug-finding time by 30% for the QA.
• Composed effective Git commits and well structured code that conserved half
of the TechLead’s code review time. 
• Achieved full stack skills promptly within 2 weeks of work during a very critical
pre-sales period that increased team output by 20%.  
• United the developers to adhere to coding standards of MVC and refined the
structure of the code base which delivered 20% faster debugging time.

Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

ExxonMobil
Inspection Engineering Intern
August 2016 - December 2016 (5 months)
1 Pulau Ayer Chawan, Jurong Island, Singapore - Fuels and Lubricants
Refinery

• Digitized past inspection records and improvised work process by using VBA
that slashed 60% of wasted working hours due to hardcopy searches. 
• Initiated and developed MS Access database project to store clamp records
and inspection photos that replaced old system. New system improved
working speed of piping inspectors by 70%. 
• Upgraded the functionalities of the Annual Inspector Salary monitoring
system by applying VBA for organising personnel records and financial data;
reduced wasted hours by 50%.

Singapore Armed Forces (SAF)
Human Resources Lead Administrator
July 2013 - June 2015 (2 years)
Singapore (Pasir Laba Ammunition Depot) - An ammunition supply base

• Oversaw Human Resource (HR) assistance to 100 personnel in four outlets
across Singapore. 
• Negotiated the services and inspected the work performance of private
transport contractors for daily functions within the depot.  
• Eliminated 90% work-hours and 66% manpower needs by programming new
Microsoft Excel monitoring methods for HR tasks to circumvent the lack of
replacements for two outgoing personnel in the first six months of service. 
• Maintained excellent zero-finding record in transport audits and awarded
Depot Best Soldier for the Month of April 2015 to recognise the implementation
of novel IT System by four ammunition depots. 

Vopak
Biotechnologist Intern
September 2011 - November 2011 (3 months)
Singapore (Sebarok Island) - Oil and Gas Bulk Storage Island

• Directed a group of foreign workers of diverse ethnic backgrounds to
remediate groundwater oil seepage using hydrocarbon-consuming bacteria. 
• Employed effective schedules for growing thrice the usual number of bacteria
in Singapore Polytechnic as a result of a groundwater hydrocarbon increase
occurring two weeks into the internship. 

Page 3 of 4

 

 

 

• Achieved at the end of the internship 39% decrease in groundwater oil
compared to after the increase and a 10% decrease compared to right before
the internship.

Education
Nanyang Technological University
Bachelor’s Degree, Materials Engineering · (2015 - 2018)

Singapore Polytechnic
Diploma, Biotechnology · (2010 - 2013)

Broadrick Secondary School
O Level, Sciences · (2006 - 2009)

Page 4 of 4

