Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/
danielgoleman (LinkedIn)
danielgoleman.info/ (Company)
www.morethansound.net
(Company)
www.psychologytoday.com/
blog/the-brain-and-emotional-
intelligence (Blog)

Publications
Bringing Emotional Intelligence to
the Workplace: Best Practices
Emotional Intelligence: Issues and
Common Misunderstandings

 

 

 

Daniel Goleman
What Makes a Leader? Emotional and Social Intelligence
Northampton

Summary
Daniel Goleman is the author of the best-selling Emotional
Intelligence, as well as many other works in emotional and social
intelligence, leadership, and education. He is also a psychologist,
former science journalist for the New York Times, and co-director
of the Consortium for Research on Emotional Intelligence in
Organizations. He lectures frequently to professional audiences.

Daniel has a bachelor’s degree from Amherst College, and a PhD
in clinical psychology and personality development from Harvard,
where he also taught. He co-founded the Collaborative for Academic,
Social, and Emotional Learning at Yale University’s Child Studies
Center.

During the early part of his career, Daniel traveled extensively to
India to pursue his interests in Asian traditions and meditation, which
inspired his first book, The Meditative Mind, and created lifelong
relationships with fellow thinkers, writers, and researchers in the
field of contemplative science. Dr. Goleman’s most recent book,
written with long-time colleague and friend, neuroscientist Richard
J. Davidson, is Altered Traits: Science Reveals How Meditation
Changes Your Mind, Brain, and Body.

His work as a science journalist led Daniel to write his breakthrough
book, Emotional Intelligence: Why It Can Matter More Than IQ.
EI, as Goleman defines it, has four parts: self-awareness, self-
management, social awareness, and relationship management.

He has co-designed an Emotional Intelligence Coaching Certification
with Key Step Media, and a facilitated online learning experience for
building EI with Everwise/Key Step Media. He has published a set
of primers, each focusing on one of the twelve competencies in the
Emotional and Social Intelligence Leadership competency model he
developed with Richard Boyatzis, which includes contributions from

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

over a dozen experts in applying EI competencies to leadership and
organizational settings. 

Experience

Goleman EI
Co-developer
October 2019 - Present (1 year 7 months)
Goleman EI is an emotional intelligence (EI) coaching, consulting, and
training organization. We offer a suite of services including: coach training
and certification, online learning, organizational training and consulting, and
executive coaching built on decades of research. GEI was co-founded by
Daniel Goleman, and a team of EI, leaders and organizational performance
experts committed to strengthening EI globally.

Consortium for Research on Emotional Intelligence in Organizations
Co-Director
January 1996 - Present (25 years 4 months)

Collaborative for Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning
Co-Founder
January 1994 - Present (27 years 4 months)

The New York Times
Science Journalist
January 1983 - January 1995 (12 years 1 month)

Education
Harvard University
Ph.D., Psychology

Page 2 of 2

