 

 

 

Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/gargastha
(LinkedIn)
astha-scientist.netlify.app/ (Blog)

Astha Garg, Ph.D.
Principal Data Scientist | Deep Learning | Time Series
Singapore

Top Skills
Python
Machine Learning
Data Science

Languages
English (Native or Bilingual)
Hindi (Native or Bilingual)

Certifications
Bayesian Statistics: From Concept to
Data Analysis
Principles of Computing (Part 1)
Algorithmic Thinking (Part 1)
Probabilistic Graphical Models
Specialization
Bayesian Methods for Machine
Learning

Publications
Particle Zeta Potentials Remain
Finite in Saturated Salt Solutions
Origins of concentration gradients for
diffusiophoresis
Boundaries can steer active Janus
spheres

Patents
Non-UV high hardness low k film
deposition

Summary
I love discovering, decoding and retelling the stories that data tells.
I wield powerful tools such as statistics, machine learning and
deep learning to solve important problems encountered in research
and production in the semiconductor, materials, chemicals and
pharmaceuticals industries.

I place solving problems and improving productivity at the center,
which means I care not just about the latest algorithms, but also
about the most appropriate approach for the problem.

My passion for data is what drove me to go from being a PhD in
Chemical Engineering to a Data Scientist at Citrine Informatics,
helping companies speed up materials design using machine
learning. At Chord X, our team is creating smart solutions to reduce
downtime and emissions of marine engines. 

My research interests include anomaly detection for industry 4.0,
uncertainty quantification and working with less data. 

Some characteristics set these problems apart from mainstream data
science problems, such as those encountered in retail or advertising:

* small datasets,
* the presence of decades of domain expertise
* the necessity of building confidence in a model.

As a Scientist dedicated to solving these problems, I fuse my diverse
experiences as a Data Scientist, Formulation Scientist (during PhD)
and Process Engineer (at Applied Materials) with cutting edge
research in field of AI to provide practicable, robust and insightful
solutions.

Page 1 of 4

 

 

 

Outside of work, I love dancing and spreading the joy ny teaching
Bombay Jam; and getting back to my roots as a Chemical Engineer -
by experimenting with food in my kitchen :)

Experience

Chord X
Principal Data Scientist
December 2020 - Present (4 months)
Singapore

Institute of Infocomm Research, A*STAR - Agency for Science,
Technology and Research
Machine Learning Researcher
September 2019 - December 2020 (1 year 4 months)
Singapore

I am currently researching deep learning algorithms for anomaly detection
in industrial time-series, and developing approaches for data-driven
experimental design for data coming from heterogenous sources, to solve
problems encountered in manufacturing and RnD in the chemicals, materials,
pharamceuticals industries. 

Keywords: time-series analysis, deep learning, uncertainty quantification,
bayesian optimization. 

Citrine Informatics
Data Scientist
May 2018 - July 2019 (1 year 3 months)
San Francisco Bay Area

Worked with top chemicals and materials companies in the US and Europe
to accelerate materials design using machine learning, showing tangible
results. In one of the projects I led, we leveraged machine learning combined
with domain knowledge to narrow down a search space of over 10,000
candidates to <100 promising candidates. In just 18 weeks, more than 25%
of the candidates we identified were experimentally shown to beat the best
observed over years of research. 

Applied Materials
Process Engineer 3
May 2017 - May 2018 (1 year 1 month)

Page 2 of 4

 

 

 

San Francisco Bay Area

Worked on improving the productivity of Chemical Vapor Deposition process
by reducing defects, improving uniformity and film properties through data
analysis and design of experiments. 

Penn State University
Graduate Student
August 2012 - April 2017 (4 years 9 months)
State College, Pennsylvania Area

Thesis Advisor : Prof Darrell Velegol
Thesis title : Measurement Of Colloid Transport - From Micromotors To Geo-
Reservoirs

As part of my thesis work, I made the first ever measurements of charge (zeta
potential) on microscopic colloidal particles at saturated salt concentrations.
The signal to noise ratio for these measurements was enhanced by extracting
the response of sinusoidal electric fields using fourier transforms. In this project
I automated the acquisition of over 200 videos and the analysis of data from
over 2 million images.

Through these, and other conventional means such as electron microscopy
I have gained insights into the nano- and micro-scale behavior of colloidal
particles and fluid flows. 

Collaborations 
I have collaborated with many groups at Penn State and outside, working
on my thesis project. Some of these groups include Prof. Ayusman Sen
(Chemistry), Prof. Kyle Bishop (Chem Engg) and Prof. Christopher Gorski
(Civil Engg).

BASF
Research Intern
October 2011 - April 2012 (7 months)
Modeling and simulation of a distillation column in FORTRAN for optimal mass
transfer. 

Education
Penn State University

Page 3 of 4

 

 

 

Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.), Chemical Engineering · (2012 - 2017)

Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay
Bachelor of Technology (B.Tech.), Chemical Engineering · (2007 - 2011)

J. H. Ambani School
Matriculation  · (1995 - 2005)

Page 4 of 4

