 

 

 

Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/khyati-vashi-
b96103a3 (LinkedIn)

Khyati Vashi
Full-Stack Developer at Visa, Inc
Singapore

Top Skills
Full-Stack Development
Agile
Systems Design

Certifications
Scrum Master Certified (SMC)
OCJP

Summary
Full stack developer with 8+ years experience in application design,
development & implementation.
Currently involved in the design and development efforts for rewriting
legacy applications and processes. This comprises of analysis,
planning and choosing the right technology stack for the rewrite
efforts for building efficient processes.
Primarily working on developing front-end & back-end applications
using various open source technologies like Spring MVC, Ext JS,
Angular JS, MyBatis, Docker etc.
Passionate about learning new technologies, leading technical
redesign efforts & exploring the world of programming.

Experience

Visa
4 years 3 months
Staff Software Engineer
October 2018 - Present (2 years 6 months)
Singapore

Currently working on the front-end & back-end rewrite efforts at Visa for
migrating the legacy 
applications/processes to an open source based solution. 
Responsible for the architecture, planning, design and implementation of micro
service based 
solutions in an agile fashion for tightly coupled legacy code.
Work on POCs and test the solution for efficiency, performance before it's
implemented at a wider 
level.
Develop/program new functionality and features in line with functional
specifications and business 
requirements.

Senior Software Engineer
January 2017 - October 2018 (1 year 10 months)

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

Singapore

Migrated the legacy UI which was in Mainframe to new UI using Ext JS, Node
JS and Angular.  
Develop/program new functionality and features in line with functional
specifications and business 
requirements.
Work with the application team to create requirements for the legacy systems
rewrite.

Oracle in Financial Services
Staff Consultant
August 2014 - December 2016 (2 years 5 months)
Primarily worked as an Agile Java developer, developing new functionalities
for various upstream applications & exposing them using REST Webservices. 
Involved in UI development for a trading application for an esteemed bank
using Spring, Hibernate and SmartGWT for faster response times. 

Tata Consultancy Services
Systems Engineer
March 2012 - August 2014 (2 years 6 months)
Mumbai

Worked as a Java Developer for 2.5 years for building the new taxation reform
system GST (Goods & Services Taxation).
Proficient in developing new functionalities in Spring 3.0 & JPA. Build
automation through Maven.

Education
University of Mumbai
Bachelor's degree, Information Technology · (2007 - 2011)

Page 2 of 2

