 

 

Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/kithsiri-
w-8354657 (LinkedIn)
guessmysoftware.blogspot.com/
(Blog)
www.ca-cib.com (Company)

Top Skills
Hibernate
Spring
Tomcat

Languages
Sinhala (Native or Bilingual)
English (Professional Working)

Certifications
Sun Certified Java Programmer
Virtusa Certified Scrum Master
Parallel and Concurrent
Programming with Java 1

 

Kithsiri W.
Senior Java/J2EE Developer at Crédit Agricole CIB
Singapore

Summary
11 years of diverse experience in the software industry. Dynamic
and skilled IT professional with proven success in software project/
product development. Experience in Enterprise Application
development on the J2EE platform, design and development of Web
applications. Strong troubleshooting, analytical and design skills.

Specialties: C, Oracle 10g, Java 1.6, Spring and hibernate 3,
unix AIX 5, windows xp, Ext-js, GWT, DOJO, Grails, Python2.7,
Django 3,  EJB3, P4V, BOSaNOVA, Java Swings, LiquiBase,
NodeJS, AngularJS, Quova, Squid, AJAX, Oracle Service Bus,
SonicMQ,  Docker, MongoDB, Redis Caching, Akamai, New
Relic, AppDynamics Agile, SCRUM, KANBAN, JasperReports,
Splunk, Apache Lucene, Apache POI, ElasticSearch, Alfresco,
JIRA, Jenkins, Subversion, Bitbucket, Spring Boot, Spring Cloud,
jQuery, Apache Tomcat, Jboss, Webspehere, Rational Rose UML,
Lucidchart, Struts 2, Sonar, FindBugs,Fiddler, Postman,Apache
OpenNLP,RASA NLU,artificial intelligence,Microservices with Netflix
stack,Harshicorp stack and AWS eco system, Hortonworks Data
platform, HA deployment,JibX,Angular 9 etc.

Experience

Crédit Agricole CIB
Senior JAVA/J2EE Developer
October 2018 - Present (2 years 6 months)
Singapore

Virtusa
6 years 9 months
Senior Consultant technology
October 2017 - October 2018 (1 year 1 month)
Sri Lanka

Page 1 of 5

 

 

 

development of complex, multitiered and distributed Web based software
applications. 
Provides technical guidance to an empowered team of 6+ software engineers
on aspects 
of development including adherence to the architectural & engineering best
practices following agile principles.

- Coaching an agile team which consists of Software engineers, Senior
Software Engineers
- The main responsibilities are to meet the given deadline with high quality
products, work collaboratively with other teams to ensure the product meets
required quality, make sure that the engineering best practices are met,
reviewing the codes, grooming the team, work closely with the US counter
parts and etc. 
- Requirement gathering, analyzing and preparing the design documents when
necessary.
- Analyzing the existing systems/applications to identify the improvements and
propose the solutions for them
- Supporting monitoring proactively to make sure that the systems are up and
running 24/7
- Demonstration of the developed feature set to the end users timely manner.

Consultant - technology
March 2016 - September 2017 (1 year 7 months)
Sri Lanka

development of complex, multitiered and distributed Web based software
applications. 
Provides technical guidance to an empowered team of 6+ software engineers
on aspects 
of development including adherence to the architectural & engineering best
practices following agile principles.

- Coaching an agile team which consists of Software engineers, Senior
Software Engineers
- The main responsibilities are to meet the given deadline with high quality
products, work collaboratively with other teams to ensure the product meets
required quality, make sure that the engineering best practices are met,
reviewing the codes, grooming the team, work closely with the US counter
parts and etc. 

Page 2 of 5

 

 

 

- Requirement gathering, analyzing and preparing the design documents when
necessary.
- Analyzing the existing systems/applications to identify the improvements and
propose the solutions for them
- Supporting monitoring proactively to make sure that the systems are up and
running 24/7
- Demonstration of the developed feature set to the end users timely manner.

Associate Consultant - Technology
May 2015 - February 2016 (10 months)
Sri Lanka

Attend to client meetings and gathering the requirements with the support of
business analyst and rest of the team.
participating on requirement elicitation meetings.
Starting designing phase with the team members and doing the review with
architect, doing necessary changes if needed after the discussions.
Assign multiple tasks among the team in association with project manager.
Assisting juniors in difficult problem solving situations.
Starting the development phase on fine grained designing in TDD approach
with the help of QA leadership.
Configuring the lower test environments as needed
Involve in unit testing and integration testing in lower environments.
participate in code reviews and suggest refactoring accordingly.
Handover the feature demo each member of the team.

Associate Consultant - Technology
May 2014 - May 2015 (1 year 1 month)
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

Worked at client location (Standard Chartered Bank Sdn Bhd)
Duties and responsibilities were related to kind of support activities plus
software system designing and developments.
Once an issue reported try to clarify with the client if needed.
Involve in resolution of the issue and if there any modification to be done
review it and engage in designing of new change then close the task in
Remedy ticketing system.

Associate Consultant - Technology
February 2012 - May 2014 (2 years 4 months)
Sri Lanka

Requirement elicitation with business analyst
Software designing with UML and review them the team lead and architect

Page 3 of 5

 

 

 

Start the test cases then development
Involve in unit testing activities
Involve  in integration testing
Involve  in system testing
Finally doing demonstration to the developed feature to the client

OpenArc Systems Management (pvt) Ltd
Software Engineer
December 2010 - February 2012 (1 year 3 months)
Sri Lanka

Following waterfall approach to build the projects
Collecting and discussing product requirements with business analyst to clarify
them.
Designing of the software system and also review closely them with technical
leads and architects
Starting the POCs and developments with the team
While developing take care of the functionality testing as well

Bellvantage
Associate software engineer
March 2008 - December 2010 (2 years 10 months)
Worked on BVCP(Bellvantage collaboration platform), rating and billing
module in Bellvantage and Lanka bell. GWT, Spring, hibernate, struts, grails
and relevant J2EE technologies are applied with those systems front end
development and also backend. While the development environments are
basically on UNIX AIX and windows xp. Most of the time backend operations is
being done with PL/SQL , functions and procedures on Oracle RDBMS.

IJTS
Trainee J2EE developer
August 2007 - February 2008 (7 months)
The developments were started as trainee java developer with struts 1.3.8,
hibernate and RDBMS was postgresSQL. Mainly worked on Hotel reservation
system with web services request response handling part, Student registration
system , Online photo gallery and Eloan system .

Education
BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT
BSc equivalent, Computer Software · (2008 - 2010)

Page 4 of 5

 

 

 

Dudley Senanayeke Central College
 · (1997 - 2005)

Dudley Senanayeke Central College
Advanced Level in physics,chemistry,biology  · (1997 - 2004)

Page 5 of 5

