 

 

 

Contact

Phuc Le
Data Scientist at Shopee
Singapore

www.linkedin.com/in/phuchle
(LinkedIn)
drive.google.com/file/
d/1T1MlZPT2PYGcaOip9vJpdUw0DjFx5ZIf/
view (Portfolio)

Experience

Top Skills
Python
JavaScript
SQL

Languages
English (Professional Working)

Publications
Deep Learning in Cross-Lingual
English-Vietnamese Sentiment
Classification

Shopee
Data Scientist
January 2019 - Present (2 years 4 months)
Singapore

Working in Knowledge Graph team

Main responsibilities:
* Building graph analytics pipeline (Collect, ETL, Modelling, Evaluation).
* Building graph infrastructure using JanusGraph (database), HBase
(persistence) and Elasticsearch (indexer).
* Building geolocation search/index service using Elasticsearch.
* Building geolocation-based/temporal user profile.
* Building graph DSL/computational layer on Hadoop/Spark.
* Experimenting deep learning on graph (GCN-based methods, Trans-based,
etc.) in distributed manner.
* Applications: Fraud detection, product categories, geolocation, knowledge
graph.

Umbala, Inc.
Project Intern
October 2017 - April 2018 (7 months)
Vietnam

Umbala TV was a video streaming mobile application which targeted young
music talents and audiences with gifting features for audiences to support their
idols.

Main responsibilities:
* Create a web version for Umbala TV which showcases some of the main
features of the mobile version to attract more users from the web platform.
* Write JavaScript code to create React components and fetch correct APIs.
* Write Golang code with Gin as the framework to connect with the databases
and handle requests.
* Setup a Linux server which has a compatibility to host both the front-end and
back-end code.

Page 1 of 2

 

 

 

* Setup NGNIX to direct the requests to the correct location on the server.

Main technologies: React, Webpack, Golang, PostgreSQL, Redis, NGINX.

Lac Long Co. Ltd.
Mobile Developer Intern
October 2017 - December 2017 (3 months)
Vietnam

Lac Long Co. Ltd. is a manufacturing company which produces pedi-spa
equipment ranging from spa base, chair, table, etc. During the time at Lac
Long, I worked on the pedi-spa booking mobile application for pedicure
saloons in the US market.

Main responsibilities:
* Write back-end code using Python with Flask as the framework to shape
APIs for the mobile client.
* Write log-in and sign-up function for the iOS client using Swift.

Main technologies: Swift for iOS client, Java for Android client, Python,
MySQL.

SunIvy International
Web Developer Intern
August 2016 - October 2016 (3 months)
Vietnam

SunIvy International Inc. is providing CRM solutions at a cheaper cost for
small/mid level companies.

Main responsibilities:
* Create a new interface for Telesales web application using Bootstrap and
jQuery.
* Work alongside with back-end team to integrate .NET into the new interface.

Main technologies: .NET, Microsoft SQL Server, Bootstrap, jQuery.

Education
VNUHCM - University of Science
Bachelor of Science - BS, Computer Science · (2014 - 2018)

Page 2 of 2

