Contact

www.linkedin.com/in/rhsn1
(LinkedIn)
mrh-jishan.github.io/mrh-jishan/
(Portfolio)
github.com/mrh-jishan/ (Other)

Top Skills
angular 4
Node.js
Ruby on Rails

Languages
English (Full Professional)

Certifications
The Complete Angular Course:
Beginner to Advanced
Ultimate AWS Certified Developer
Associate 2020 
Certified Kubernetes Application
Developer 2020
NgRx (with NgRx Data) - The
Complete Guide 
Java Multithreading 

Honors-Awards
BSC (HONS) IN COMPUTER
SCIENCE
Querterly Star Award (Q3)

 

 

 

Robiul Hassan
Full Stack Engineer | Spring-Boot | Angular | ReactJS | NodeJS |
AWS
Singapore

Summary
language independent ,results-oriented, and resourceful software
engineer professional specialising in large scale software design
and development. I believe that a new language or framework is just
another tool and I would like to work with any technology which suits
to the project. 

On given any languages or frameworks,  the project goal is
achievable,  only factor is time, money and resources and if anything
that can be Written in JavaScript, will Eventually be Written in
JavaScript...

I do have around 3+ years of experience in implementing and
providing support for new software solutions, and development as
well as demonstrated experience in micro-services architecture and
implementing CI/CD pipelines using AWS. 

Below are the teach skills I have been using in my previous projects
so far:

- Programming Languages: Java, JavaScript, Typescript, Ruby
- Frameworks: Spring-Boot, Angular, ReactJS, NodeJS, Ruby on
Rails
- Databases: MySQL, MongoDB, Postgres, DB2, Oracle, Redis
- DevOps & CI/CD: AWS, Docker, Jenkins, k8s, Maven, Git
- Testing Tools: Mockito, Rspec, jUnit, Jasmine, Mocha, Chai
- OS: Windows, Ubuntu, Arch Linux (Unix and Linux based
preferred)
- IDE: Eclipse, VSCode, WebStorm, RubyMine
- Others: Socket, Pusher ,Kafka, ActiveMQ, Micro-Service, Shell
Scripting

Note: Not attending any leetCode or Codility test by choice

Page 1 of 3

 

 

 

Portfolio: https://mrh-jishan.github.io/mrh-jishan/
Medium: https://robiul-hassan.medium.com/
GitHub: https://github.com/mrh-jishan/

Experience

Cognizant
Project Associate | Full-stack Engineer
October 2019 - Present (1 year 7 months)
Singapore

- Develop corporate action services for clients to consume T24 OFS enquiry as
well as GraphQL services 
- Configure CI/CD pipeline setup on teamcity jobs and use ansible for server
configuration.
- Worked on activeMQ, FTPS, and kafka for high frequency data
transformation. 
- Build DSL engine for clients to migrate DB2 data which reduced 30% load on
the existing COBOL server.

Finterra
Frontend Developer
September 2017 - September 2019 (2 years 1 month)
Kuala Lumpur, Federal Territory of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

- Worked on multiple projects to meet the deliverables with zero defect to the
production.
- Redesign crowdfunding portal to decrease the run time by 50% by
implementing lazy loading on Angular to gain more customers.
- Design the micro-service architecture and automate the CI/CD pipeline using
AWS tools like S3, EKS, CodePipeline, and Docker.

Astro
Intern | Software Engineer
August 2017 - October 2017 (3 months)
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia

- Learn Salesforce visual-force and implemented new features for the sales
team to increase the productivity.
- Redesign in-house WinLead portal to compatible with mobile screen and
different browsers.

Page 2 of 3

 

 

 

- Implemented Zip code validation for the sales zone on the sales portal.

Education
Asia Pacific University of Technology and Innovation (APU / APIIT)
Bachelor's degree, Computer Science · (2015 - 2018)

Page 3 of 3

